# TG-Pre-Work

## When we hit https://www.techtonicgroup.com/ what happens? Don’t focus too much on architecture (Monolithic, SOA, Microservices, etc.). Try to focus more on how the web functions.

In broad terms, what happens is a connection is established between our computer and the server and data is communicated. However there are many steps that must first happen in order to perform this. The first step is for our machine to determine which server, of the billions out there, we are trying to connect to. To do this our computer must take the url string we have given it and convert it into its corresponding IP address. Our machine will use this IP address to establish a connection with the server. Just like humans, computers communicate with one another in a common language as well. However, instead of using words and sentences, computers communicate with one another using protocols. Our computer and the server will use TCP/IP protocols to establish a connection and communicate data. Using these protocols our computer will send an HTTP request to the server. The server will respond to this request by sending back a webpage in the form of HTML text files. Our browser will compile and run the source code of these text files in order to display the webpage. What is rendered by the browser after interpreting the source code is what we see on our screen when we enter https://www.techtonicgroup.com/.

## From start to finish how does that data reach you to be rendered in the browser?

Before data can be sent from the server to the browser  a connection must be established. After this the HTTP request that is sent from the browser to the server will initiate the transfer of data. The server will take this request and respond to it with the use of a program called a request handler. It is the job of the request handler to process the request and generate a response. This response is then broken down into packets and sent to the browser via the physical infrastructure of the internet.

## What code is rendered in the browser?

The code that is rendered in the browser is the code that is sent by the server. This might be a combination of HTML, CSS and JavaScript files. The first step the browser makes when rendering a web page is forming the Document Object model from the HTML code. Then the CSS Object Model is formed from the CSS files. The Document Object Model and the CSS Object Model are then combined to create what is called the render tree. The render tree is used by the browser to compute the coordinates of each element that is to be painted to the screen. After the coordinates are computed the browser can display the actual text and graphics of the web page on the screen.

## What is the server-side code’s main function?

Server-side code, is code used by the server to retrieve data from a database and send it to the client to be displayed. In other words the server-side code is what processes HTTP requests and sends HTTP responses. The job of the server-side code is to wait for a request from a client and upon receiving a request, process it and send the appropriate response.

## What is the client-side code’s main function?

The client-side code, which is run by the client’s browser, is responsible for displaying information to the user and processing user input. Everything that the user sees in the browser is generated by the client-side code. Any input from the user must first be processed by the client side code before a request can be made to the server. Any response sent by the server must be rendered by the client-side code before it can be displayed to the user. The client-side code can be seen as the middle man between the user and the server. When a user clicks a button on a web page to request data from the database, the client-side code is responsible for recognizing the button click and sending the corresponding request to the server. When the client-side code receives a response back from the the server it will display that response to the user. In this way the client-side code acts as an intermediary between the user and the server.

## How many instances of the client-side assets (HTML, CSS, JS, Images, etc.) are created?

The number of instances of client-side assets is determined by the number of requests sent to the server. Each time the server receives a request and sends a response it is creating and sending an instance of a client side asset. So the more requests that are handled and responded to, the more instances of client side assets are created.

## How many instances of the server-side code are available at any given time?

Websites that do not need to process many requests at a time will be able to get by with only  one instance of server-side code. However if a website is processing several requests per second it may be necessary to create multiple instances of the server-side code in order to process the requests in a more timely fashion.

## What is runtime?

In terms of web development runtime can refer to many different things. One way of classifying runtime is any point in time when that program is being run. The runtime environment, which is closely related to this definition of runtime, is essentially the compiler in which the code is being run in. This environment includes the standard libraries that are installed on that machine and used by the code. A third definition of runtime is an algorithmic expression that describes the time it takes for a program to complete in terms of the variables of the program.

## How many instances of the the databases connected to the server application are created?

It depends, if there are several servers running code this could increase the number of instances of requests. Also, the manner in which the server side code is programmed to handle requests will also affect the number of instances of connections. 
